---
layout: post
title: QQCats
category: project
author: Ellen Duong
thumbnail: images/projects/QQCats/image4.png
image: images/projects/QQCats/image4.png
timeline: Oct 15, 2016 - Nov 15, 2016
tags: ["Game Design", "Unreal"]
---

Your cat, Mister Carrots, needs to go to the vet, which means he has to get in his cat carrier.
But Mister Carrots generally dislikes being told what to do. Mister Carrots likes to wander your apartment aimlessly, occasionally breaking things and waggling his tail.

<!-- more -->

Enter the cucumber. It is well established that cats do not like cucumbers, and will respond to cucumbers by jumping away from them. With only your cucumbers and your wits, you must get Mister Carrots safely to his carrier… without completely destroying your apartment.

<div class="align-center">
<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/207728516" width="640" height="360" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

### Features
- WASD Movement
- Mouse-click cucumber placement and retrieval
- Point deductions based on cucumber placement and retrieval
- Cat behavior state machine and animations, allowing the cat to wander around the room
- Visibility-based cucumber response for the cat
- Mouse-click cat petting, for satiating Mister Carrots’ need for stimulus
- Stylish and destructible interior decoration
- Physically inspired cucumber behavior
- Auditory feedback for Mister Carrots going airborne, breaking things
- Calming background music
- Cat carrier end goal

### Group Project and Contributions
**Team Members:** Ellen Duong, Kangning Li and Grace Xu in Fall 2016 for Game Design Practicum

**Software Used:** Unreal Engine 4.12.5, Autodesk Maya 2016, Adobe Photoshop, GIMP 2

**My Contributions:**
  - Worked together to model cat behavior
  - Cucumber placement and thrust into scene
  - Raycasted into the the scene to detect cucumbers. Display indication of whether you're able to pick up a cucumber or not with circle highlight in center of screen. 
  - Cucumber modeling and texturing

<ul class="actions stacked align-center">
    <li><a href="https://github.com/gracexu94/QQCats" class="button large wide smooth-scroll-middle">View on Github</a></li>
</ul>